url: http://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/html/htmledition/phonetic-correction-1.html
url_id: /IR-book/html/htmledition/phonetic-correction-1
title: Phonetic correction
read_at: 02/01/2026
parents: /IR-book/html/htmledition/contents-1, /IR-book/html/htmledition/context-sensitive-spelling-correction-1, /IR-book/html/htmledition/dictionaries-and-tolerant-retrieval-1, /IR-book/html/htmledition/index-1, /IR-book/html/htmledition/irbook
links: http://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/html/htmledition/contents-1.html, http://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/html/htmledition/context-sensitive-spelling-correction-1.html, http://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/html/htmledition/dictionaries-and-tolerant-retrieval-1.html, http://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/html/htmledition/index-1.html, http://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/html/htmledition/references-and-further-reading-3.html
Algorithms for such phonetic hashing are commonly collectively known as soundex algorithms. However, there is an original soundex algorithm, with various variants, built on the following scheme: Turn every term to be indexed into a 4-character reduced form. Build an inverted index from these reduced forms to the original terms; call this the soundex index. Do the same with query terms. When the query calls for a soundex match, search this soundex index. The variations in different soundex algorithms have to do with the conversion of terms to 4-character forms. A commonly used conversion results in a 4-character code, with the first character being a letter of the alphabet and the other three being digits between 0 and 9. Retain the first letter of the term. Change all occurrences of the following letters to '0'
(zero): 'A', E', 'I', 'O', 'U', 'H', 'W', 'Y'. Change letters to digits as follows:

B, F, P, V to 1.

C, G, J, K, Q, S, X, Z to 2.

D,T to 3.

L to 4.

M, N to 5.

R to 6. Repeatedly remove one out of each pair of consecutive
identical digits. Remove all zeros from the resulting string.
Pad the resulting string with trailing zeros and return the first four positions, which will consist of a letter followed by three digits. For an example of a soundex map, Hermann maps to H655. Given a query (say herman), we compute its soundex code and then retrieve all vocabulary terms matching this soundex code from the soundex index, before running the resulting query on the standard inverted index. This algorithm rests on a few observations: (1) vowels are viewed as interchangeable, in transcribing names; (2) consonants with similar sounds (e.g., D and T) are put in equivalence classes. This leads to related names often having the same soundex codes.  While these rules work for many cases, especially European languages, such rules tend to be writing system dependent. For example, Chinese names can be written in Wade-Giles or Pinyin transcription.  While soundex works for some of the differences in the two transcriptions, for instance mapping both Wade-Giles hs and Pinyin x to 2, it fails in other cases, for example Wade-Giles j and Pinyin r are mapped differently. Exercises. Find two differently spelled proper nouns whose soundex codes are the same. Find two phonetically similar proper nouns whose soundex codes are different. Next: References and further reading Up: Dictionaries and tolerant retrieval Previous: Context sensitive spelling correction Contents Index © 2008 Cambridge University Press This is an automatically generated page. In case of formatting errors you may want to look at the PDF edition of the book. 2009-04-07
For an example of a soundex map, Hermann maps to H655. Given a query (say herman), we compute its soundex code and then retrieve all vocabulary terms matching this soundex code from the soundex index, before running the resulting query on the standard inverted index. This algorithm rests on a few observations: (1) vowels are viewed as interchangeable, in transcribing names; (2) consonants with similar sounds (e.g., D and T) are put in equivalence classes. This leads to related names often having the same soundex codes.  While these rules work for many cases, especially European languages, such rules tend to be writing system dependent. For example, Chinese names can be written in Wade-Giles or Pinyin transcription.  While soundex works for some of the differences in the two transcriptions, for instance mapping both Wade-Giles hs and Pinyin x to 2, it fails in other cases, for example Wade-Giles j and Pinyin r are mapped differently. Exercises. Find two differently spelled proper nouns whose soundex codes are the same. Find two phonetically similar proper nouns whose soundex codes are different. Next: References and further reading Up: Dictionaries and tolerant retrieval Previous: Context sensitive spelling correction Contents Index © 2008 Cambridge University Press This is an automatically generated page. In case of formatting errors you may want to look at the PDF edition of the book. 2009-04-07
This algorithm rests on a few observations: (1) vowels are viewed as interchangeable, in transcribing names; (2) consonants with similar sounds (e.g., D and T) are put in equivalence classes. This leads to related names often having the same soundex codes.  While these rules work for many cases, especially European languages, such rules tend to be writing system dependent. For example, Chinese names can be written in Wade-Giles or Pinyin transcription.  While soundex works for some of the differences in the two transcriptions, for instance mapping both Wade-Giles hs and Pinyin x to 2, it fails in other cases, for example Wade-Giles j and Pinyin r are mapped differently. Exercises. Find two differently spelled proper nouns whose soundex codes are the same. Find two phonetically similar proper nouns whose soundex codes are different. Next: References and further reading Up: Dictionaries and tolerant retrieval Previous: Context sensitive spelling correction Contents Index © 2008 Cambridge University Press This is an automatically generated page. In case of formatting errors you may want to look at the PDF edition of the book. 2009-04-07
Exercises. Find two differently spelled proper nouns whose soundex codes are the same. Find two phonetically similar proper nouns whose soundex codes are different. Next: References and further reading Up: Dictionaries and tolerant retrieval Previous: Context sensitive spelling correction Contents Index © 2008 Cambridge University Press This is an automatically generated page. In case of formatting errors you may want to look at the PDF edition of the book. 2009-04-07